Assembling the E951

For this you will need appropriate flux, solder, and magnification. With the tiny size of the legs on 
the MPU, this is not a kit for beginners. Goof Off (in the metal can) or 90+% IPA can be used with 
Q-Tips to remove flux after soldering. 

When assembling, I used GC Chemicals' liquid rosin flux, leaded solder, and a jeweler's loupe. A 
blunt-tipped soldering aid can be used with a tiny amount of rosin flux to lift the component into 
place on the rosin prepped solder pads. Use the other end of the soldering aid to align the component
to the pads. A cut-off Q-Tip stick was used to carefully hold the tiny component in place while
soldering one side into place using a hot soldering iron with a tiny bit of solder on the tip. I 
used a 1/8" chisel tipped soldering iron to solder everything into place, using the pointed corner of
the tip to solder the IC legs. However, use whatever makes you comfortable when assembling.

Start with the main PCB and install all the ICs first, in no particular order: U1, U2, U3, U4, and U5.
	Double check alignment with pads and proper placement of pin 1 before soldering!

Install the reference diode, D3.

Next install all the SMT resistors EXCEPT R8, R9, R12, and R13.

Now install these capacitors: 
	.001uf (1nf): C8, C11
	.1uf (100nf): C1, C2, C3, C5, C6, C7, C9, C10, C16

Install the coil L2

Install the remaining capacitors:
	2.2uf: C4, C12, C13, C17, C18
	10uf: C14, C15

Install the coils at L1 and L3

Next install the diodes at D1 and D2. Be careful to install them properly with respect to the stripe.

Grab the OLED display and look at the pinout of the 4 pin connector. There are two different pinouts
of this module for sale and the 0603 resistors connect power and ground to the needed pins on J2.
	If: Vcc, GND, SCL, SDA then install R8 and R13 - DO NOT install R9 and R12
	If: GND, Vcc, SCL, SDA then install R9 and R12 - DO NOT install R8 and R13

Install the pin headers for power (JP1), programming (H1), and connectivity to the E950 (J1). J5 is
not used and the holes can simply be left open or soldered in, your choice. Now flip the module over
and solder in the 4 pin headers at J2 and J3 for mouting the OLED sub-board where indicated on the 
silkscreen.

With the module still flipped, install potentiometer VR1 and toggle switch SW1. Install the standoff
and mounting screw. Set the main PCB aside.

Take the switch PCB and insert the 3 NKK push button switches. Be careful to align the switch function
pins (NC, O, C) to the marked silk-screen holes on the PCB. Before soldering, carefully lay the front
panel over the switches and they will slot into the holes to align them before soldering into place.
Install the 5 pin header, being sure to place it in the silkscreened area on the PCB and not on the 
back side. Insert the 3 nylon standoffs then set the PCB and front panel aside.

If your OLED display came with mounting hardware, mount it to the OLED PCB and solder it into place.
If it did not come with mounting hardware, carefully hold it parallel to the OLED PCB standing off
from the PCB for most of the pin length to the OLED PCB. Solder the outer two pins into place and
verify it's parallel to the OLED PCB and is square to it - use the white silkscreen on the PCB to 
ensure the display isn't tilted to one side. Now be sure to solder the remaining two pins. This
step is easy to miss, resulting in needing to desolder and remove the OLED PCB to reach those pins 
to solder them.

Take the front panel and use a black permanent marker (Sharpie brand works well) and darken the 
sides of the hole for the display to hide the shiny aluminum. Now countersink the hole for mounting
the module to the front panel if you're using countersink type screws. 

Place one of the nuts onto the toggle switch then place the OLED display PCB over the pins on the 
main PCB, with the pins for the OLED display toward the top of the module. Install the counter-
sink screw into the front panel to mount it to the PCB. Set the nut on the toggle switch to place
the front panel level over the main PCB. Align the OLED display to the front of the module and
carefully solder it into place using the 4 pins at the top of the module. Remove the front panel
and solder the other four pins to finish mounting the OLED display PCB to the main PCB. Remove 
the protective film from the display. 

Mount the switch PCB to the back side of the main PCB with the 4 standoffs. Be careful to ensure
the switches stick out the front side of the PCB along with the potentiometer and toggle switch.
Space to get the soldering iron in to solder the header is very limited so remove the plastic caps
from the switches before soldering the PCB into place along the 5 pin header. Reinstall the plastic
caps on the switches when finished.

Next, solder the Thonk jacks to the jack PCB. The manufacturer provided PCB layout for the jacks is
slightly oversized, making the fit sloppy. Hold the jacks to the PCB and slide them towards the end
away from the ground pin before soldering into place. This will help ensure a better fit of the 
jacks to the front panel. Flip the PCB over and install the 9 pin header where indicated on the 
silk screen.

Loosely mount the jack PCB to the front panel with the pins toward the bottom of the module. Lay
the front panel on top of the assembled main PCB and place the second nut over the toggle switch
snugly and insert the countersink screw into place. Now solder the front panel to the main PCB.
Tighten the mounting nuts for the jacks and the toggle switch.

Install the knob onto the potentiometer to finish assembly.

Now compile the code and install it onto the module. You are then ready to test.

-------------

Programming the E951 is easy with the proper tools. I used the STM32 Nucleo-64 PCB and the STM32
ST-LINK Utility from ST to do the programming. This method simply works every time and even works
to program the notoriously difficult Blue Pill modules using the optional 4-pin header on those.

The Nucleo PCB has a detachable ST-Link programming header on the top of the PCB that is used to
program other ST32 chips using the SWD connector. To prepare it for programming external devices:
	Remove jumpers at CN3, CN11, and CN12
	Remove any jumper at JP1 and JP4
	Remove the jumpers from CN2

Now connect your PC to the Nucleo board's USB connector. Open the STM32 ST-LINK Utility, go to the
ST-LINK menu, and choose Firmware Update. Connect to the device and upgrade to the firmware version
suggested. It may be a downgrade for your module and this is OK. You want the version with the
Utility program. Unplug and reconnect the module to your PC. 

Connect a 4-pin cable to pins 1-4 of CN4 and connect it to the E951's programming header, pins 1-4.
Pins five and 6 are not-used. Be sure pin 1 is connected to pin 1, etc. Connect the E951 to a rack
power source and turn it on. Under the Target menu on the ST-LINK Utility, Connect to the PCB. 

If it cannot connect, check power, check proper connection to the Nucleo PCB, look for soldering 
problems on the MCU, etc.

Open the firmware file (File > Open file) then under Target, click Program to open the programming
dialog box. Program the module. It will reset automatically and you should then see the module
display activate then connect to the E950. If it shows "Disconnected" then the 3-pin cable to the
E950 is not installed or isn't properly assembled or... did you remember to power up the E950?

If programming is successful, but there is nothing showing on the OLED display, check to see if
the OLED display pins are all soldered into place. It's easy to forget the other two pins when 
leveling the PCB to the OLED PCB. Also check proper placement of R9/R12 or R8/13 for routing 
power and ground to the OLED display.

-------------

Testing the E951

Testing is easy if you have a source of CV/Gate. Please note that the BANK input is -5 to +5 and
while it isn't CV, 0-5v CV can be used to test the module. Plug the Gate signal into the SHORT
jack and activate it. You will see the S on the OLED display. If the toggle is set to MOMEN then
the S will disappear as the Gate signal is deactivated. If set to LATCH then the S will disappear
when the Gate signal is appliend again. Plug the gate signal to the LONG jack and verify it 
operates in a similar fashion.

Apply CV to the BANK input and turn the BANK MOD control fully clockwise. Pressing keys across
an octave will result in multiple changes showing on the display. It will not change with every
key across the octave and this is normal as it's not a 0-5v CV input, but -5 to +5 voltage swing.

Press SPEAK and the module will speak. Press SPEAK and then press SHORT or LONG and you'll loop
the audio with short or long sections. If the toggle is set to MOMEN then the loop lasts as long
as you hold the switch. If it is set to LATCH then the loop lasts until you press the LONG or 
SHORT switch again.

Turn the SPEECH knob on the E950 to switch speech banks and the selected word and bank number 
will change on the E951's display. Turn the FINE/INDEX knob to choose the word from the bank. 

If you turn the FINE/INDEX knob to past the current bank's word list then it will start speaking
the next bank's words in order until the knob is moved back. This is normal.

-------------

Congratulations! You've built and tested an E951. Enjoy!